[2025H1] add field projection project goal (#181)
rust-lang/rust-project-goals: src/2025h1/field-projections.md

operate on fields of the contained types compared to references.

### The status quo

Field projections are a unifying solution to several problems:
- [pin projections],
- ergonomic pointer-to-field access operations for pointer-types (`*const T`, `&mut MaybeUninit<T>`,
  `NonNull<T>`, `&UnsafeCell<T>`, etc.),
- projecting custom references and container types.

[Pin projections] have been a constant pain point and this feature solves them elegantly while at
the same time solving a much broader problem space. For example, field projections enable the
ergonomic use of `NonNull<T>` over `*mut T` for accessing fields.

In the following sections, we will cover the basic usage first. And then we will go over the most
complex version that is required for [pin projections] as well as allowing custom projections such
as the abstraction for RCU from the Rust for Linux project (also given below).

[pin projections]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/pin/index.html#projections-and-structural-pinning
[Pin projections]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/pin/index.html#projections-and-structural-pinning

#### Ergonomic Pointer-to-Field Operations

> We will use the struct from the summary as a simple example:

Reviewer: No summary here:

```suggestion
We will use the struct from the RFC's summary as a simple example:
```

```rust
struct Foo {
    bar: i32,
}
```

References and raw pointers already possess pointer-to-field operations. Given a variable `foo: &T`
one can write `&foo.bar` to obtain a `&i32` pointing to the field `bar` of `Foo`. The same can be
done for `foo: *const T`: `&raw (*foo).bar` (although this operation is `unsafe`) and their mutable
versions.

However, the other pointer-like types such as `NonNull<T>`, `&mut MaybeUninit<T>` and
`&UnsafeCell<T>` don't natively support this operation. Of course one can write:

```rust
unsafe fn project(foo: NonNull<Foo>) -> NonNull<i32> {
    let foo = foo.as_ptr();
    unsafe { NonNull::new_unchecked(&raw mut (*foo).bar) }
}
```

But this is very annoying to use in practice, since the code depends on the name of the field and
can thus not be written using a single generic function. For this reason, many people use raw
pointers even though `NonNull<T>` would be more fitting. The same can be said about `&mut
MaybeUninit<T>`.

> Field projection is adding a new operator that allows types to provide operations generic over the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Field projection adds a new operator that allows types to provide operations generic over the
```

Solve big design questions using lang design meetings:

- figure out the best design for field traits,
- determine if `unsafe` field projections should exist,
- settle on a design for the `Project` trait,
- add support for simultaneous projections.

Bikeshed/solve smaller issues:

- projection operator syntax,
- should naming field types have a native syntax?
- naming of the different types and traits,
- discuss which stdlib types should have field projection.

#### Implement the RFC and Experiment

- implement all of the various details from the RFC
- experiment with field projections in the wild
- iterate over the design using this experimentation

### The "shiny future" we are working towards

The ultimate goal is to have ergonomic field projections available in stable rust. Using it should
feel similar to using field access today.

## Ownership and team asks

**Owner:** @y86-dev

| Subgoal                                        | Owner(s) or team(s)        | Notes |
| ---------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- | ----- |
| Accept [Field Projections RFC]                 |                            |       |

> | ↳ Design meeting                               | @y86-dev, ![Team][] [lang] |       |

Reviewer 2: I think the scripts expect this to just be a team
